Lazy evaluation or call-by-need is an evaluation strategy where an expression
isn't evaluated until it's first used to postpone the evaluation until it is demanded.
Functional programming languages like Scala or Haskell uses this idea.
We are going to use Scala to show lazy evaluation.
First we're going to enter a Scala so that we start a Scala REPL.
I'm going to create a list with numbers,
so I just create a list and then I'm going to apply a map function on top of it.
So I put list times 2, like this.
So looking at this,
we can tell the value of the output is calculated
as soon as the operation is applied on top of it.
Well, let's create another list and we're going to apply
a lazy annotation to the example.
It's going to be a same list but when we do this,
the next one we're going to apply a lazy evaluation here.
Lazy val and is going the same operation.
You can see now it's called lazy and then you see how in the first output,
you saw that when the map was applied it changed immediately,
but it hasn't done that for this one.
So when we do a print line which is the practically the action operation,
and you're going to see that it's then applied here,
instead of when you apply the map.
So that's one simple demo for the lazy evaluation.
One of the advantages of lazy evaluation is that it helps in optimizing the process
by evaluating the expression only when it's needed, like print line.
Then it avoids unnecessary overhead.
So why lazy evaluation when we're talking about Spark?
Well, spark is written in Scala and there are two different function types when operating
on RDD dataframe dataset and a good amount of them are lazily evaluated.